---
layout: default
---
<div>
      <h5>Cryptography Mailing List</h5>
      <h1>Bitcoin P2P e-cash paper</h1>
      
      

        <em>2008-10-31 18:10:00 UTC</em>
        <small>
          - <a href="http://www.metzdowd.com/pipermail/cryptography/2008-October/014810.html">Original Email</a>
          - <a href="/emails/cryptography/threads/1/#014810">View in Thread</a>
        </small>
    
      <div class="email-text-monospace">I've been working on a new electronic cash system that's fully<br>peer-to-peer, with no trusted third party.<br><br>The paper is available at:<br>http://www.bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf<br><br>The main properties:<br> Double-spending is prevented with a peer-to-peer network.<br> No mint or other trusted parties.<br> Participants can be anonymous.<br> New coins are made from Hashcash style proof-of-work.<br> The proof-of-work for new coin generation also powers the<br>    network to prevent double-spending.<br><br>Bitcoin: A Peer-to-Peer Electronic Cash System<br><br>Abstract.  A purely peer-to-peer version of electronic cash would<br>allow online payments to be sent directly from one party to another<br>without the burdens of going through a financial institution.<br>Digital signatures provide part of the solution, but the main<br>benefits are lost if a trusted party is still required to prevent<br>double-spending.  We propose a solution to the double-spending<br>problem using a peer-to-peer network.  The network timestamps<br>transactions by hashing them into an ongoing chain of hash-based<br>proof-of-work, forming a record that cannot be changed without<br>redoing the proof-of-work.  The longest chain not only serves as<br>proof of the sequence of events witnessed, but proof that it came<br>from the largest pool of CPU power.  As long as honest nodes control<br>the most CPU power on the network, they can generate the longest<br>chain and outpace any attackers.  The network itself requires<br>minimal structure.  Messages are broadcasted on a best effort basis,<br>and nodes can leave and rejoin the network at will, accepting the<br>longest proof-of-work chain as proof of what happened while they<br>were gone.<br><br>Full paper at:<br>http://www.bitcoin.org/bitcoin.pdf<br><br>Satoshi Nakamoto<br><br>---------------------------------------------------------------------<br>The Cryptography Mailing List<br>Unsubscribe by sending "unsubscribe cryptography" to majordomo at metzdowd.com<br><br></div>
		</div>
